well the Hamas run health authority
assess fresh Israeli air strikes have
killed dozens of people in central Gaza
officials also say strikes of the
weekend killed nearly a 100 Palestinians
Sheltering in a makeshift camp near Han
yunas Israel says the latest T the
latest attacks targeted the leadership
of Hamas which carried out the October
7th Terror attacks our
next more than 9 months into the war
there's no letup in Israel's bombing
campaign in G
this is the aftermath of a strike in
newat which hosts one of the territory's
most crowded refugee
camps me and my other sister were saying
our mareet prayers when suddenly bombs
fell on us there was nothing happening
they told me your brother's children
died in
hospital oh Abdullah my brother
the Israeli military said that over the
previous 24 hours its Air Force struck
quote approximately 40 Terror Targets in
Gaza including sniping posts Hamas
military structures and buildings rigged
with
explosives but locals say the victims
here were
civilians a whole family died the mother
the father and the two children and also
Mahmud who worked in the Civil ad
Administration it's not the first strike
in
newat on Sunday Israeli war planes hit a
un run school there that was used to
shelter displace
Palestinians it was the fifth out of six
schools to be bombed in N9
days other camps for displaced people
have also come under Israeli
fire at the weekend the Palestinian
health Ministry said more than 90 people
were killed and hundreds more injured in
gaza's declared safe Zone al- maazi as
Israel tried to eliminate two top Hamas
commanders it was one of the deadliest
strikes since the beginning of the war
in the US the state department had this
to say about it they do have the right
to Target militants um does that justify
attacking on civilian no that's what I'm
just saying we we do um uh but no of
course it does not justify any attacks
on civilians we don't want to see any
attacks on civilians we don't want to
see any civilian deaths
so but civilian deaths there were
doctors at the nearby NASA Hospital said
they were overwhelmed with bodies and
injured people after the strike on al-
maazi an account backed by the UN Agency
for Palestine
refugees we saw toddlers who were double
amputees uh children paralyzed and
unable to receive treatment one mother I
talked to told me that um she was told
to move to Rafa because it would be safe
there and then she was told to move to
masasi because it would be safe there
and unfortunately for her and her family
that was not
true Israel maintains that terrorists
are hiding in civilian structures and
areas and that it takes steps to
minimize civilian
casualties recent scenes from Gaza smogs
and hospitals suggest otherwise
well the Israeli military declined DW's
request for an interview now Robert
Goldman is a professor of law at
American University in Washington D.C
he's also faculty director of the war
crimes research office and co-director
of wcl's Center for human rights and
humanitarian law welcome to DW Professor
Israel says those deadly attacks on safe
zones and schools are legitimate because
they were targeting Hamas militants what
do you say
well it will depend on the particular
circumstances obviously you cannot
directly attack civilians the law of War
however contemplates that civilians may
become wounded or even
killed uh as a consequence of an attack
against a lawful military
Target uh we have over 38,000 deaths
reported by the Ministry of Health of
Hamas uh that's a somewhat misle leading
figure in the sense that it includes
Hamas Fighters as well as civilians who
have directly participated in
hostilities so even if you subtract 20%
it still is a very very high civilian
toll that said this is an
extraordinarily difficult military
environment it is a densely populated
area uh and the way Hamas has been
fighting
uh in this and this in past
conflicts uh it is well established that
they are using civilian structures they
have used hospitals they have used
tunnels 400 miles of tunnels uh below
structures and so forth uh in order to
hide combatants uh uh to build uh
weapons and uh to use it for moving
their combatants around
around uh so it's an extraordinarily
difficult environment one has to look at
each and every one of the attacks and
assess look we have this thing called
the rule of
proportionality and this is comes into
play whenever you're going to launch an
attack against a lawful Target that's
located in the midst of a civilian
populations and this rule seeks to
protect civilians from becoming
excessive collateral damage understood
listen yeah go ahead just just because
of the complexities that you have
outlined there how and when do you think
the two parties uh in this conflict can
or will be brought to
account well as you well know several
months ago that the prosecutor for the
international criminal court uh issued
uh uh requests for arrest warrant for
Netanyahu top a top Israeli General as
well as the top Hamas
leadership uh in connection with war
crimes crimes against humanity uh that
have been committed uh by uh those
parties we have to wait to see whether
or not the trial court uh judges will
sustain those those warrants and of
course the international court of
justice has also issued provisional
measures requiring Israel to give un
needed access to humanitarian
relief uh it remains to be seen nothing
Hamas is not going to surrender its
leadership and the Israelis certainly
are not going to do this just as the IC
as you know issued a year ago uh a
similar kind of Warrant uh for Putin in
connection with uh war crimes committed
uh in in
Ukraine uh that's not going to happen
happen soon this is this is very clear
if it ever really does happen right the
issue is trying to mitigate civilian
damage and harm in the ongoing
hostilities i' like your your your
thoughts on um what the UN has been
saying that they're saying that Israeli
strikes are systematically violating
rules of War Israel's mission in Geneva
of course has rejected the un's findings
as factually legally and
methodologically flawed so in a
situation where even the experts can't
enter the
territory who can investigate
this well you do have the
IC uh who have a prosecutorial team you
have other non-governmental
organizations and so forth who are
expert uh on International humanitarian
law uh that are investigating you would
not have a request for arrest warrants
uh if the ICC prosecut torial team was
not reasonably confident uh that they
had a evidentiary basis to prosecute a
case what is very difficult is trying to
prove that for instance the
Israelis uh launched an indiscriminate
attack that is an attack against a
lawful Target in the knowledge that it
would cause disproportionate collateral
damage this is extraordinarily hard to
do it is is much easier to prove for
instance uh offenses like what Hamas did
which triggered the war on October 7th
that is going in and massacring unarmed
civilians that is uh undertaking acts
against people who are under your
Authority and control that is different
from an aerial bombardment or going into
urban Warfare situations where it will
require knowledge of what was the
information available to uh Israel the
commanders at the time of the attack
what precautions did they take what
weapon did they choose to to use at
their disposal that could have mitigated
right uh uh civian casualties thank you
for walking us through that Professor
Robert Goldman of the American
University of Washington College of
Law Delight to be with you